DB instance class types

Amazon RDS supports three types of instance classes: general purpose, memory optimized, and burstable performance. For more information about Amazon EC2 instance types, see Instance types in the Amazon EC2 documentation.

The following are the general-purpose DB instance types available:

    db.m6g – General-purpose instance classes powered by AWS Graviton2 processors. These deliver balanced compute, memory, and networking for a broad range of general-purpose workloads.

    You can modify a DB instance to use one of the DB instance classes powered by AWS Graviton2 processors by completing the same steps as any other DB instance modification.

    db.m6gd – General-purpose instance classes powered by AWS Graviton2 processors. These deliver balanced compute, memory, and networking for a broad range of general-purpose workloads. These have local NVMe-based SSD block-level storage for applications that need high-speed, low latency local storage.

    These DB instance classes are only supported for Multi-AZ DB clusters. For more information about Multi-AZ DB clusters, see Multi-AZ DB cluster deployments.

    db.m6i – General-purpose instance classes that are well suited for a broad range of general-purpose workloads.

    db.m5d – General-purpose instance classes that are optimized for low latency, very high random I/O performance, and high sequential read throughput.

    For the RDS for MySQL and RDS for PostgreSQL DB engines, these DB instance classes are only supported for Multi-AZ DB clusters. For more information about Multi-AZ DB clusters, see Multi-AZ DB cluster deployments.

    db.m5 –General-purpose instance classes that provide a balance of compute, memory, and network resources, and are a good choice for many applications. The db.m5 instance classes provide more computing capacity than the previous db.m4 instance classes. They are powered by the AWS Nitro System, a combination of dedicated hardware and lightweight hypervisor.

    db.m4 – General-purpose instance classes that provide more computing capacity than the previous db.m3 instance classes.

    db.m3 – General-purpose instance classes that provide more computing capacity than the previous db.m1 instance classes.

The following are the memory optimized DB instance types available:

    db.x2g – Instance classes optimized for memory-intensive applications and powered by AWS Graviton2 processors. These offer low cost per GiB of memory.

    You can modify a DB instance to use one of the DB instance classes powered by AWS Graviton2 processors by completing the same steps as any other DB instance modification.

    db.z1d – Instance classes optimized for memory-intensive applications. These offer both high compute capacity and a high memory footprint. High frequency z1d instances deliver a sustained all core frequency of up to 4.0 GHz.

    db.x1e – Instance classes optimized for memory-intensive applications. These offer one of the lowest price per gibibyte (GiB) of RAM among the DB instance classes and up to 3,904 GiB of DRAM-based instance memory.

    db.x1 – Instance classes optimized for memory-intensive applications. These offer one of the lowest price per GiB of RAM among the DB instance classes and up to 1,952 GiB of DRAM-based instance memory.

    db.r6g – Instance classes powered by AWS Graviton2 processors. These are ideal for running memory-intensive workloads in open-source databases such as MySQL and PostgreSQL.

    You can modify a DB instance to use one of the DB instance classes powered by AWS Graviton2 processors by completing the same steps as any other DB instance modification.

    db.r6gd – Instance classes powered by AWS Graviton2 processors. These are ideal for running memory-intensive workloads in open-source databases such as MySQL and PostgreSQL. These have local NVMe-based SSD block-level storage for applications that need high-speed, low latency local storage.

    These DB instance classes are only supported for Multi-AZ DB clusters. For more information about Multi-AZ DB clusters, see Multi-AZ DB cluster deployments.

    db.r6i – Instance classes that are ideal for running memory-intensive workloads.

    db.r5b – Instance classes that are memory optimized for throughput-intensive applications. Powered by the AWS Nitro System, db.r5b instances deliver up to 60 Gbps bandwidth and 260,000 IOPS of EBS performance, which is the fastest block storage performance on EC2.

    db.r5d – Instance classes that are optimized for low latency, very high random I/O performance, and high sequential read throughput.

    For the RDS for MySQL and RDS for PostgreSQL DB engines, these DB instance classes are only supported for Multi-AZ DB clusters. For more information about Multi-AZ DB clusters, see Multi-AZ DB cluster deployments.

    db.r5 – Instance classes optimized for memory-intensive applications. These offer improved networking and Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) performance. They are powered by the AWS Nitro System, a combination of dedicated hardware and lightweight hypervisor.

    db.r3 – Instance classes that provide memory optimization.

The following are the burstable-performance DB instance types available:

    db.t4g – General-purpose instance classes powered by Arm-based AWS Graviton2 processors. These deliver better price performance than previous burstable-performance DB instance classes for a broad set of burstable general-purpose workloads. Amazon RDS T4g instances are configured for Unlimited mode, which means that they can burst beyond the baseline over a 24-hour window for an additional charge.

    You can modify a DB instance to use one of the DB instance classes powered by AWS Graviton2 processors by completing the same steps as with any other DB instance modification.

    db.t3 – Instance classes that provide a baseline performance level, with the ability to burst to full CPU usage. T3 instances are configured for Unlimited mode. These instance classes provide more computing capacity than the previous db.t2 instance classes. They are powered by the AWS Nitro System, a combination of dedicated hardware and lightweight hypervisor.

    db.t2 – Instance classes that provide a baseline performance level, with the ability to burst to full CPU usage. T2 instances can be configured for Unlimited mode. We recommend using these instance classes only for development and test servers, or other nonproduction servers.
